Business Analysis
Business Analysis is the practice of identifying business problems, analyzing needs, and defining solutions
that deliver value to the organization.

Business Analyst acts a bridge between Business stakeholders and Technical teams
Business analyst must ensure that the right problem is identified, right solution is derived, and does this solution actually solved the problem or not.


Some of the common problems faced by Business Analyst
1. Poor Communication - Business analyst acts as a brige between business teams (Stakeholder) and technical teams.
2. Skill Gap - Business analyst analyze that the right and efficient skills are used.
3. Lack of system clarity - Developers don't know what actually they need to build or solve.


Software Development LifeCycle (SDLC):
Software development lifecycle is a structured framework to plan, build, test, deploy, and maintain system software in systematic and controller manner.
The ultimate goal of sdlc is to build high-quality software to meet or exceed customer expectations, 
reaches completion within time and cost, and most efficient to maintain as well.

The Stages of SDLC, follow:
1.  Requirements Gathering & Analysis: In this stage, the actual business problem is identified and requirements are collected from stakeholders.
The goal of this stage is to understand what needs to be build and why.
Certain activities are involved in this stage such as feasibility study, resource allocation, project scheduling, and cost estimation.

2.  System Design: In system design stage, the technical architecture of the system is built based on the requirement gathered.
The goal of this stage is to understand how the system will be built technically.

3. Development: In development, developers start writing the actual code based on the design documentation. The physical software is created in 
development phase. The activities that are performed in this phase are coding, code reviews, and code analysis.

4. Testing: Testing ensures that the software works correctly or not and meets the requirement gathered earlier.
The goal is to identify bugs, errors, and finding missing requirements before releasing the software or product.
Types of testing involved are: 1. Unit Testing, 2. User Acceptance Testing, 3. System Testing, 4. Integration Testing.

5. Deployment: Deployment stage is where the actual software or product is released to the production environment and making available

6. Maintenance: After deployment, the software enters into the maintenance phase where it is monitored, updated, and improved.
The involved activities in this stage are, bug fixing, performance tuning, adding new features, and updating libraries.




Waterfall and Agile:

1. Waterfall Model: Waterfall model is a sequential, phase-by-phase approach where each phase must be completed before moving to the next phase.
Backtracking is not permitted in waterfall model.

2. Agile Model: Agile is an iterative and flexible software development approach where software is developed in smaller increments and 
delivered in time-boxed period called Sprints. Agile delivers working feature in every 2 weeks.
for the actual end users.

Key Agile Concepts:
1. Sprint: Sprint is a time-boxed iteration where teams must deliver incremental working feature of a software for every 2-4 weeks.
2. Scrum: Scrum is a agile framework where teams breakdown complex projects into small manageable tasks called sprint.
3. User Story: User story represents a feature from end-user's perspective.
4. Product Backlog: Product backlog is prioritized list of features and enhancements. In short, the features that are needs to be carried out.

Product backlog (Tamil Meaning) - தேங்கி நிற்கும் பணி.


