What is Project?

1. A Project is divided into series of tasks in order to complete to achieve a specific outcome. Specific outcome can be a product, service, or others as well
2. As a project is divided into series of tasks it as an defintive begining and an ending.
3. A project is an unique and one time activity.

What is Project Management?

1. A Project Management is the planning and management of a project in order to achieve listed objectives and deliverables.
So here, planning and managing is all about planning financial resources, managing human and non-human resources.
2. A Project Management applies Skillset, Processes, Method, Knowledge, and Experience to achieve project objectives within given parameter.
Here given parameters can be a deadline and deliverables to meet.
3. Project Management includes recognizing and managing of risks, careful resource management, and open communication across multiple teams and with stakeholders as well.


Project Management Lifecycle:

Project Management lifecycle has 5 phases

1. Initiation
2. Planning
3. Execution
4. Monitoring
5. Closing

1. Initiation: In Initiation phase, understand goals, specific needs, risks involved, deadlines, and priorities.
2. Planning: In Planning phase, outline or define the tasks and time required to complete the tasks. This is the important phase because a proper planning leads to a successful completion of a project.
3. Execution: In Execution, we turn planning into action.
4. Monitoring: In Monitoring phase, we track status of the tasks or goals and budget as well.
5. Closing: In Closing phase, all the deliverables and project objectives to be completed successfully and summarize the journey of the project for future needs.

Need to Project Management Tool

1. Project Management tool is used to track the entire flow or process of the project tasks and ensure it is smooth.
2. Project Management tool can be use an individual or as a group to track the tasks are performed effectively and efficiently.
3. Project Management tool helps to designate the tasks in specific order or prioritize the order and it helps to find out the tasks that 
are interdependent as well.

Features:
1. The interface of the project management tool should be super easy so that it can be easily related or used.
2. The tool must be customizable based on the nature of the projects and this eliminates the repetative tasks as well.
3. The tool must be flexible enough for all related teams to work and access together.


Basics of Agile Methodology
What is Agile?
Agile is a software development methodology. Instead of developing a software in a single life cycle, teams use agile to break the 
process or development cycle into small and manageable iterations. Those iterations are called Sprints.
Each Sprint has to deliver a specific outcome so that it can reviewed, tested, and gathering feedback from the customer or stakeholders as well.

So each sprint has 5 stages:
1. Planning
2. Development
3. Testing
4. Review & Demo
5. Retrospective.

1. Planning: Planning in sprint is basically plan all the requirements, tasks, dependencies, and parameters of the project.
2. Development: The actual coding starts in the development phase, where a specific tasks is picked and starts to develop it.
3. Testing: Testing is done in the respective sprint and not at the end of the project. This helps to cintinuous testing and improving quality
of the project.
4. Review & Demo: In review and demo phase, tasks are reviewd by the stakeholder and teams. In this phase, team can expect an add ons or customizing
of tasks. So these add ons again goes within the sprint and not at the end of the project.
5.  Retrospective: Retrospective is all about the self or team imrpovement like what went wrong, what is the plus, what are the ways to 
improve in the next sprint.

What is Sprint?
A Sprint is a fixed-length, time-boxed iteration (usually 1–4 weeks) in which a Scrum team plans, builds, tests, and delivers a 
usable increment of software.

Major frameworks in Agile is:
1. Scrum is a time-boxed, iterative framework that uses sprints to deliver software incrementally. In scrum a specific tasks is completed before
moving on to the next tasks.
2. Kanban: Kanban does not use sprints it a continuous working flow where team can pick next tasks when working on a current tasks.



