Need for Analysis:

Why analysis is needed in Business Analysis?
The need for analysis in business analysis is to understand the current business situation, identify the problems and opportunities, define clear 
requirements, and determine best possible solutions in order to bring change, deliver value to stakeholders, and improve performance of the business
situation.

Example for the definition:
phone - condition(repair) - problem(camera problem) - requirement(analyse root cause of the camera) - solution(repairing os exisitng or 
change of camera) - 
deliver change(phone is repaired) - performance(camera is working) - stakeholder(customer is happy with the service).

Why analysis is needed?
Analysis is needed to understand the business need, identify root problem, ensure the right solution is delivered. Analysis helps to align stakeholders,
reduce risk, reduce cost, and avoids rework which helps to make decisions.

What Happens If Analysis Is NOT Done?
If analysis is not done, then
  1. Wrong understanding of business situation,
  2. Unclearly understood of requirements,
  3. Proposing worng solutions,
  4. Recurring of rework,
  5. Increase in cost or budget,
  6. Stakeholders are dissatisfied,
  7. Project fails.


Practice Question 1

A company says:

“We need a mobile app.”

Task:
Explain in 2–3 lines why analysis is required before building the app.

Analysis is required before building the app becuase the company can't jump directly to the solution by building the app. Before building the 
app company need to understand the business situation, understand and interpret the problems, and then proposing a solutions.
Without following these steps and directly jumping into a solutions may cause heavy budget, rework, and leads to project failure.

Practice Question 2
List any three risks if a business skips analysis and directly starts development.

  1. Cost incurred into the project or development will increase.
  2. Resources needs to rework on the entire process and this dissatisfies the stakeholders.
  3. The business problem may need a different solution rather than developing an app. This leads to a biased solution proposal.

Practice Question 3
Is analysis more important before or after solution development?
Explain why in one or two lines.

Analysis is more important before solution development because it helps clearly understand the business problem, 
needs, and constraints, ensuring the right solution is selected.  
Performing analysis after development increases the risk of rework, cost overruns, and solution failure.

